Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we are going to be looking at how we can replace all the arpey SEE and property replication
that was currently in our code with these two strikes of the move.
And the state.
So we're going to be stripping out everything pretty much that's there and replacing it with these two
things.
That's what we're gonna do.
Let's dive in and find out how.
So we haven't currently changed anything about how our code work we've just introduced two new struct
which we're going to need in our pseudocode.
But let's take a little look at what we already have essentially what we're implementing but not by
using these strikes and we're going to be looking in this lecture at how we can implement it using those
structures like a refactored to get the same functionality so we can do a quick read Green refactor
a few Remember the red green refactored loop that's been mentioned in other courses.
So let's overview that pseudocode again what we've got is on our client side we tick.
Then we create a new move save to a list of unacknowledged moves send the move to the server and simulate
the move locally.
Then we send sending this move over to the server which is going to trigger an on receive move on the
server then it's going to check the validity of the move.
It's going to simulate the move it's going to send the canonicals state down to the clients.
So that's this arrow here sending the carcase stake down the client so the clients will receive a conical
state from the server remove all moves included in the state all ready.
So they're going to remove their unacknowledged moves.
The ones that have been acknowledged reset to the server state and then replay their unacknowledged
moves.
That little Delta they get to replay it on top.
Okay so what do we actually have this all ready.
Well I've just you can just see the ones that are in italics in red are the ones we don't have everything
else we kind of already got.
We do create a new me we don't do this on Tich we just send our inputs up to the server via two different
IP see calls and we so we don't have a move per say but we've got some variables on our object on an
actor that act as a move and we simulate locally on tick.
We receive moves Well actually we don't receive moves but we receive inputs from the client and we simulate
the move on the tick on the server.
So we're not doing it on received move but were doing it on the tick and then we send the canonical
state to the clients via a bundle of different replicated properties currently.
And when those replicated properties come down we just use them to reset to the server state on the
clients and we're simulating locally as we've already said.
So with actually got quite a lot of this aeroplane everything basically apart from saving these moves
and replaying these moves.
So what we want to do is refactor towards this and then we can implement these red bits separately.
We can just try and use our struct.
First of all which were going to need and refactor towards it.
So what are we going to do first we're going to start off with that state.
So I'm going to replicate state via a struct because at the moment if we go over to our go cart dot
age and you can follow along with me and have a look for everything that is currently replicated in
the search for replicated you'll see that we've got a velocity we've got a transform and we've got this
throttle and steering through it and we've bundled all of this up in the last lecture into a struct
called F go karts state which has the transform has the velocity in has last move and the last move
will conclude the throttle and steering throw as well as a few other bits of information which is going
to be vital for the rest of the algorithm.
So this is what we're going to want to replicate.
So let's go ahead and start ripping out those other replicated properties so I'm going to copy the go
cart state and create a new property of that type.
And I'm going to stick this somewhere at the bottom like so go carts state and I'm going to just call
this the server state as we've been calling it in our pseudo code doesn't need a default property default
is of all going to be zero.
Now it's going to be you property and it's going to be replicated.
First of all and in fact we probably want it to be replicated using So let's copy a replicated using
example.
Because remember that we want to honour receive service state reset to server state so we're going to
need to do something in this case.
We don't want to do on rep replicate it transform.
We want to do on rep server state but we are actually going to be getting rid of the velocity and the
replicator transform so we can repurpose our replicator transform to on rep Service state and do.
And for now I'm going to leave at the throttle and steering throw a loan that's going to change very
soon.
But for now let's just leave it as it is.
So we're going to take this you function.
We're going to make sure it is renamed in the C++ or go to the C++ changer on rep transform to.
The other thing and service state is going to need to be replaced every where it was being used incorrectly.
Oh I've also forgotten to replace the replicated using on rep replicate transform to actually be on
rep service data as well.
Okay.
So now we're going to have to go look for all our redd's quigley's that are going on in the C++ file
you can also compile if you don't have read quigley's from your I.D. can compile and figure out what
you should be changing.
So you notice we removed replicate a transform and velocity.
So the first regs were really for me is in the get lifetime replicated properties where we're going
to need to remove the do rep lifetime for the two properties velocity and transform and replace them
with server state is going to need to be replicated Instead we're leaving thropp honester in for just
for now.
So where are the next quickly that score on down so Avelox team.
That's one thing that is currently not being updated.
So what do we want to do with velocity.
Well actually perhaps I was a little hasty to remove our velocity.
We do still want velocity we just don't want it to be replicated and go go and add back an F vector
called Velocity.
Because what we're going to do is keep this velocity in sync with the server so when we get the state
come down we're going to replace that as part of that service state.
So let's go back to the C++ so that reads wigley has gone a way replicated transform should now be an
issue that's wafer's will race come back.
Yes.
Here they are.
So that is where we're going to need to do this bit of the algorithm I'm going to need to send the Canticle
state to the clients at the moment.
We were just overwriting the replicator transform but it gets a little bit more complicated than that
because what we've got to do is go to our server state DOT transform and set that equal to the get Act
to transform.
And furthermore we've got to go to our server state.
Velocity and set that equal to our local velocity variable from the actor.
So that is doing a simulation on the server as per the pseudo code and then sending that canakkale staked
to clients this these two lines are sending canonical States quite there are some other things that
we should send in as surplus state for example we should send what the last move was.
Now we don't have that information just yet.
So I'm going to put in a little to do for us.
To do update the last move so it will come back to that when we've got some more information.
But in the meantime we are going to carry on looking for those reds quigley's Due to our Red refactor.
So we're going to find a replicator transform in on a rep surber state and that is one that we're going
to have to replace.
That is going to be this part of the pseudo code that says Reset to serve state at the moment we're
not worrying about doing the remove or moves included in the state and replaying the unacknowledged
moves.
We're not doing that just yet.
We're going to be looking at that in future lectures.
So one thing is the set act transform we're now going to be setting it from the server state transform
the structure.
Now notice how this is working.
You can just have a struct as long as it has all the you properties.
You can just have a struct be replicated and all the properties inside it will automatically be replicated.
If you change anything in the strikes it gets replicated.
It's fantastic it's very easy.
So we can just go ahead and use it like this and really simplify the transfer of the server state because
when we change one bit of the service state the whole package gets updated.
And we know that this bundle of server stay is consistent and that is what we've got.
So we know that the move produced this transform and produced this velocity which is exactly what we
want the kind of semantics that we want.
So then we're going to also have to set our velocity or reset our velocity to whatever the server said
so it's going to be server state DOT velocity.
And that seems like an effective reset to me.
Let's go ahead and build and see whether it is okay.
So that built successfully and we haven't made a change here to the actual functionality.
So if you play the game it should behave in exactly the same way we're just replicating the state via
a different mechanism via the struct you can play the game and try it out for yourself.
But I am not going to do that on screen.
So what I am going to do is set you a challenge lets go ahead and consolidate all the P C weve created
that move struct weve created for a reason we want to be able to send an entire move in one arpey we
call so use only the moves drugs and replace all your rpe see all that sending of input with just the
sending of the moots struct.
Where should that Strutt be created and therefore also sent out to look at the pseudocode if you're
unsure which client should be the one creating it and how are you going to check that you are that client
and then what should the server do with the data that it receives.
Pause a video and have a go at answering any questions and implementing it.
Dont worry if you get it wrong the first time and dont worry if your solution is a little bit different
but still works because in the future lectures we can converge on the same solution or you might have
a better way of doing things.
Dont be afraid to have a better way of doing things than the instructor.
It is good if the student can become the teacher.
So pause the video and have a go at the challenge.
Okay welcome back.
So we are going to be sending the moves struct Vinod.
These are Peacey.
Lets go in to the head a file for starters.
And I'm going to copy the name of obstruct just for simplicity.
And we're going to go down to find where we have our current rpe see which is this server move forward
and I'm going to change server move forward into server send move.
And it's going to take an F go cart move called move and I can remove the other rpe see which is called
Move right.
So now we have just one arpey c which is server send move.
Now I'm going to copy that service and move and I'm going to go in to our.
C++.
And we're going to go down to where we've got some reds quigley's and we are going to skip over these
ones which are about sending the move forward and the move right to the server and we're going to look
instead at these ones that are now being replaced.
We're going to replace For example the server move forward implementation with the server send move
implementation.
And similarly the server send move.
Validation is also going need to be replaced and we are going to need to change the type of both those
to take and F go cart move move an ego move move in both these cases.
Now the validation for now I'm just going to return true and I'm going to leave our selves a to do.
To make better validation.
And we're going to do this in a future lecture or so.
And I can now remove our server move right implementation and validate.
Now notice the Reds quigley's are very confused at the moment as they do get with this b c because there's
a lot of auto generated code and auto generated headers for this implementation and validate.
Now what I'm going to do to clear out the Reds quigley's and make sure they are all correct is go ahead
and build.
And we may need to refresh the project as well.
Okay so it hasn't built successfully but which is what we expected and the reds quigley's are still
there as we also expect it so we've got to go into the real adatto go to file and refresh visual studio
project when that's done updating the project code.
We head back to visual studio and reload and hopefully now our redd's quigley's with a little bit of
waiting for Intellisense will have updated and we won't get the ones that are wrong about send move.
Validate an implementation.
However I do expect to see some errors and I expect them to be around our server move forward which
no longer exists.
And around this value that we're using in our Send move implementation so these are two things that
were going to have to fix.
Let's have a look at at Challenge definition and see what we need to be fixing here.
So where should the Struck be created.
That's going to help us with these first two Squiggy leaks and which client should create it.
Okay I'm going to answer that question as well.
But what should the server do with the data.
That's going to be answering the value question so let's start with number one what should the struct
that be created.
Look at the pseudocode.
We're actually doing that in tic because we're setting our throttle and steering throw value when the
input comes in but we are going to know what those values are for simulation only in tic.
So let's go over to tick and we can create and move struct.
So I am going to do this right at the beginning of taken it's going a bit long.
We are going to factor this out soon but not just yet.
So I'm going to create a new structure and it's actually copy a struct name because I don't like typing
things and getting them wrong.
That happens far too often with me so I'm going to create the move.
Then we're going to set the properties of the move so got Delta time.
Actually we can set the delta time right away.
We can set it to the delta time on tick.
That's another good reason why doing it.
We're doing it on tick because that is where delf time is available to us.
Sure we can get it in other places but it's really nice and neat that it comes in on Delta time.
It really does tell you that you're doing it the right place.
Then were going to do this steering throw.
It's going to be equal to weld just the steering throw on this act because it has been set by the input.
We're going to do move and we're going to set the throttle to again the throttle that is on this actor
and then we're going to move dot and we've got time loops.
Not quite sure what to do with time yet so let's put a.
To do for time.
To think about how we're going to set time at a later date.
So remember one refactoring is always perfectly fine to put some to dos in there.
If you're not sure and generally with challenges do as much as you can and if you're not sure just leave
it.
So the next part of our challenge is which client should create it.
Well clearly should be the autonomous proxy or the person in charge.
So we don't want to just send it from the autonomous proxy though because then the server wouldn't be
creating these moves and the server does need to be creating these moves.
So what were going to do instead is we're going to do it.
If we are locally controlled if it's here that we're creating the steering for it so it's going to be
if and I think it is locally controlled Yes it is.
Which is a function on the actor.
Basically just saying whether it has the controller here on this client which is exactly the thing that
we want to know.
You could find that in the documentation if you were unsure and if you'd gone down the autonomous proxy
route checking that the role was the autonomous proxy that would be fine.
Just wouldn't really work very well on the server.
Later Ron.
So you'd see that later on.
I'm just not taking it dragging you through that particular bit of dirt at this point.
Okay so next up what should the server do with the data that is answering the question.
Further down here which is at first of all we can remove Now our Send server move forward and server
move right because those are getting handled in Tick instead.
And what we can do is our server send move implementation.
Now what does its post do.
What should it do.
Well let's have a look at the.
Pseudo coat.
Well the answer is here.
We need to be chechnia move which is the validate step on which we put a to do in.
For now we need to simulate the move and then send the canonical state to the clients where we're sending
the canonical state to the clients in tick.
And we're also simulating it tick.
So the simplest thing to do would be to extract the throttle information and the steering throw information
from move and just send it over to tech.
And for now that will be enough.
It will basically implement what we have already got employed so it's not going to the same doctor time
but oh well.
So we're going to use move and get the throttle from the move and we're going to get the steering throw
and set the steering throw again from the move.
Dot steering throw and I'd like to point out here that again when we're using our p see if we've got
all our new properties set up correctly you can just send struts like that just like we can replicate
them down.
We can send them back up and it's a very nice way of bundling things all together.
So let's go ahead and build this and see if it's actually still working.
But actually I just thought that there is a step that we aren't doing and that is that we aren't sending
that move.
Now we've removed the code that sends the move it more sent the old RBC.
We haven't added it in after we've created an move to create a move we should be sending it should be
server send move and then we can just send that moves struck but the other part of the equation that's
built.
So the build was successful now and I will leave it up to you to do the testing.
I'm fairly sure that it's going to work.
So I will see you in the next lecture or I will be working on those bits of code that were in red and
that we haven't yet employed.